# Creational Design Patterns #

Creational design patterns provide various object creation mechanisms, which increase flexibility and reuse of existing code.

* Factory Method    - Provides an interface for creating objects in a superclass, but allows subclasses to alter the type of objects that will be created.
* Abstract Factory  - Lets you create families of related Factories without specifying their concrete classes.
* Builder - Lets you build complex objects step by step. It allows you to create different representations of the an object using the same construction code.
* Prototype - Lets you copy existing objects without making your code dependent on their classes.
* Singleton - Ensures that your class have only one instance, while providing a global access point to this instance.




### Relations With Each Other ###

* Many designs start by using **Factory Method** (less complicated and more customizable via subclasses) and evolve toward **Abstract Factory**, **Prototype**, or **Builder** (more flexible, but more complicated).

* Abstract Factory classes are often based on a set of Factory Methods.

* **Builder** focuses on constructing complex objects step by step. **Abstract Factory** specializes in creating families of related objects. Abstract Factory returns the product immediately, whereas Builder lets you run some additional construction steps before fetching the product.

* **Abstract Factories, Builders and Prototypes** can all be implemented as **Singletons**.